---
{"aliases":null,"created":"2025-01-14T15:25:42.851+05:30","modified":null,"completed":true,"redo":false,"Perfect":false,"publish":true,"Description":null,"leetcode-index":208,"link":"https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-trie-prefix-tree","difficulty":"Medium","tags":["leetcode/hash-table","leetcode/string","leetcode/design","leetcode/trie","programming/practice","leetcode/build-data-structure"],"date created":"2025-01-14T15:25","date modified":"2025-01-14T17:30","PassFrontmatter":true,"updated":"2025-01-14T17:30:09.742+05:30"}
---


## Problem Statement

A <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trie" target="_blank">trie</a> (pronounced as "try") or prefix tree is a tree data structure used to efficiently store and retrieve keys in a dataset of strings. There are various applications of this data structure, such as autocomplete and spellchecker.

Implement the Trie class:

- `Trie()` Initializes the trie object.
	
- `void insert(String word)` Inserts the string `word` into the trie.
	
- `boolean search(String word)` Returns `true` if the string `word` is in the trie (i.e., was inserted before), and `false` otherwise.
	
- `boolean startsWith(String prefix)` Returns `true` if there is a previously inserted string `word` that has the prefix `prefix`, and `false` otherwise.

 

>[!Example]+ Example 1
>**Input**: `["Trie", "insert", "search", "search", "startsWith", "insert", "search"]
[[], ["apple"], ["apple"], ["app"], ["app"], ["app"], ["app"\|], ["apple"], ["apple"], ["app"], ["app"], ["app"], ["app"]]`
>**Output**: `[null, null, true, false, true, null, true]`
>**Explanation**: `Trie trie = new Trie();
>trie.insert("apple");
>trie.search("apple");   // return True
>trie.search("app");     // return False
>trie.startsWith("app"); // return True
>trie.insert("app");
>trie.search("app");     // return True
>`

>[!warning]+ Constraints
>- `1 <= word.length, prefix.length <= 2000`
>
>- `word` and `prefix` consist only of lowercase English letters.
>
>- At most `3 * 10^4` calls in total will be made to `insert`, `search`, and `startsWith`.

## Relevant Concepts

### Resources

## Scratchpad
```



```
## Approaches
- It's a data structure that looks like a tree with several branches.
- you just need to keep looping over and the letters in a word and feeding it to that tree.
	- Once you reach the end of the word, set a `boolean` inside the tree saying that it's the end of a word.
## Solution
```Java

```

## Complexity Analysis
- Time complexity: ``
- Space complexity: ``

## Reflections
